doc,bgpv1: More failure scenario and wording improvement (#31470)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/bgp-control-plane-operation.rst

.. _Resilient Hashing: https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/interfaces-ethernet-switches/topics/topic-map/switches-interface-resilient-hashing.html

Node Down
---------

> If the node goes down, the BGP session will be lost, and the Cilium datapath

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the node goes down, the BGP sessions from this node will be lost, and the Cilium datapath
```

forwarding will be stopped. If the node is shut down gracefully with a proper

> BGP shutdown procedure or TCP connection close, the BGP peer either stops

Reviewer: Should we document what is the `proper BGP shutdown procedure` or graceful node shutdown mechanism ?

Author: I added a new `Node Shutdown` section. Please take a look.

forwarding immediately or takes some time to stop forwarding traffic to the
node depending on the Graceful Restart settings. Since the Cilium datapath is
stopping, the traffic will be dropped during this period. This is especially

> problematic when you advertise the route to the Service with

Reviewer: I think an explanation of why this is problematic is useful. 

BGP peer will continue to forward traffic to this node even if BGP session goes down due to node shutdown till GR restart timer expires.

Author: Yep, documented it.

> stopping, the traffic will be dropped during this period. This is especially
> problematic when you advertise the route to the Service with

Reviewer 2: Grammar suggestions:

```suggestion
stopping, traffic will be dropped during this period. This is especially
problematic when you advertise the route to a Service with
```

``externalTrafficPolicy=Cluster``.

> Mitigation

Reviewer: Maybe we can have subsections under this topic. Voluntary node down, Involuntary node down.

Author: Made a Involuntary Shutdown section. I also added the Voluntary Shutdown section and referred to the Node Shutdown section from it.

~~~~~~~~~~

> When a node is voluntarily shut down, by gracefully service-out the node, you
> can avoid the packet loss. For example, you can first drain the node to evict

Reviewer 2: Grammar suggestions:

```suggestion
When a node is voluntarily shut down, to gracefully service it out, you
can avoid packet loss. For example, you can first drain the node to evict
```

Author: "by gracefully service it out" should be fine here. Users can avoid packet loss by gracefully shutting down the node.

> all workloads. After that, deconfigure the BGP session by removing the label

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all workloads. After that, deconfigure the BGP sessions by removing CiliumBGPPeeringPolicy node selector label
```

from the Node object to stop traffic towards the Services with
``externalTrafficPolicy=Cluster``. Then, wait for a period of time until the

> BGP peer stops forwarding traffic to the node and finally shut down the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BGP peer removes routes towards the node and finally shut down the node.
```

When a node is involuntarily shut down, there's no direct mitigation. You can

> choose to use or not to use the BGP Graceful Restart feature, depending on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
choose to not use the BGP Graceful Restart feature, depending on the
```

> trade-off between the failure detection time and stability. Disabling the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trade-off between the failure detection time vs stability provided by graceful restart in cases of Cilium pod restarts. Disabling the
```

> Graceful Restart allows the BGP peer to stop forwarding faster. Even if the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graceful Restart allows the BGP peer to withdraw routes faster. Even if the
```

> node is shut down ungracefully, the worst case time to stop forwarding is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node is shut down ungracefully, the worst case time for peer to withdraw routes is the
```

BGP hold time. When the Graceful Restart is enabled, the BGP peer may need hold

> time + restart time to stop forwarding traffic to the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time + restart time to withdraw routes received from the node.
```
